# Personalized Cancer Medicine 
The aim of this project it to classify given genetic mutations based on literature available in the medical domain into one of nine given classes.
A lot has been said during the past several years about how precision medicine and genetic testing are going to disrupt the way diseases like cancer are treated.
The transformation to personalized medicice is only partially happening due to the huge amount of manual work required to classify genetic inforamtion. In this project, we look to take personalized medicine to its full potential.
Once sequenced, a cancer tumor can have thousands of genetic mutations.The challenge is distinguishing the mutations that contribute to tumor growth (drivers) from the neutral mutations (passengers).
Currently, this interpretation of genetic mutations is being done manually. This is a very time-consuming task where a clinical pathologist has to manually review and classify every single genetic mutation based on evidence from text-based clinical literature. A machine learning solution to this problem will help to speed up this time-consuming procedure and produce results with significant accuracy.
This project creates features out of medical literature data and develops a machine learning algorithm that uses this knowledge base to automatically classify genetic variations.
It experiments with different models such as Logistic Regression, Random Forest, KNN, and Naive Bayes to find the best-fitting model for the problem statement.The main concepts and techonolgies used in this notebook are data analysis, data visualiation, feature enginnering, natural language processing, model building and evaluation, logistic regression and hyperparameter tuning. 
